Now that our environment is sorted out that we
bootstrapped a very basic Java EE application,
let's execute it.
For that we need WildFly.
WildFly is our Java EE runtime environment.
It's primary role is to hide all the Java EE technical
complexity and host applications.
Developers can concentrate on writing business code and leave
the container to handle resource management,
multithreading, resource pulling, and all the complex low level details.
As a side effect,
the container can also administrate the guest applications and
the technical components that it's made on.
A Java EE application is an aggregation of these components.
For example, our application will finally end up with XML configuration files,
web resources, business components, and database access components.
For our application to be executed we need to assemble all these components
together into a web archive or war and deploy it to WildFly.
This archive has a standard format so it can be executed in any
application server increasing portability.
Once deployed the application is ready to run.
WildFly sits there, waits for incoming HTTP requests,
and invokes the business code.
Maven is based around the central concept of a build lifecycle.
What this means is that the process for building and
distributing a particle artifact is clearly defined.
First,
Maven validates the project is correct and all
necessary information is available.
Then it complies the source code of the project and tests
the compiled source code using JUnit.
If the unit tests pass,
Maven takes the complied code and packages it into a war file.
It can then run integration tests with Arquillian to
ensure quality criteria are met.
Finally, it installed a package into the local repository.
This is what our final application will look like.
The browser will interact with the Angular application running on the front,
invoking the Java EE application running on the back through HTTP.
The backend connects to the database.
In terms of deployment,
we package our Java EE application in a war file and deploy it into a server.
WildFly listening on port 8080.
Our data is stored into an in-memory database.
This means our database is not running on a separate
process or listening on a specific port.
So here is the deploy diagram of our application shaping up.
Let's run the backhand.
In this demo we'll use Maven to compile and package
our bootstrapped application.
Then we will start WildFly, deploy the war file,
execute the application, and check the WildFly administration console.
So back to the IDE, this time I'm going to use the terminal inside IntelliJ IDEA.
So here I am inside the bookstore-back directory.
If I have a look what's inside I have the pom.
xml and src directory.
Now let's use Maven to package the code and then
package the compile code into a war file.
If I have a look at it, I can see a target directory.
Having a look inside the directory I can see the war file, which is only 2.
6K and contains the complied Java code and the index HTML page.
Now that I have this war file, let's go to WildFly,
start it up, and once it's started I'm going back to the browser.
So I can see WildFly is up and running,
let's go to the administration console and deploy the bookstore-back war file.
Clicking on Next, bookstore-back.
war.
Here it is, the war file is successfully deployed.
So now if I go localhost:8080/bookstore-back, I can see the Hello World!
text and that's coming from the index.
html page.
So if I go into src/webapp, here is the Hello World!
So let's change it to BookStore.
I'm not going to use Maven to package the war file again
and manually deploy it into WildFly.
What I'm going to do is actually use the WildFly integration of IntelliJ IDEA.
So here I have a runner that we'll execute,
that will package the code into the war file,
automatically deployed into WildFly, and launch the browser.
So now we've shown that everything is up and running,
the code compiles, packages, deploys. We are ready to move on.